# Alex Peake

## When did you first try Lisp (meaning here and throughout the survey "any member of the Lisp family") seriously, and which Lisp family member was it?

About two years ago. I looked (and am still looking) at Common Lisp
and Scheme

## What led you to try Lisp?

I read Paul Graham's two books - "ANSI Common Lisp" and "On Lisp" and
agreed that there was something really wonderful and better here.

## If you were trying Lisp out of unhappiness with another language, what was that other language and what did you not like about it, or what were you hoping to find different in Lisp?

I have used many languages over many years. Up until about two years
ago I have heavily used C, C++, Visual Basic, JavaScript, SQLWindows,
... The big problem for me is productivity. I spend far too much time
writing uninteresting code, and do not have enough support for the
tough problems.

## How far have you gotten in your study of Lisp? (I know, that is hard to measure)

I think I understand the languages Common Lisp/CLOS and Scheme quite
well now. I have written some interesting applications to **help
with** production code. I have not been able to write any production
code.

## What do you think of Lisp so far?

As a language - THE BEST! (And I have looked far afield -- ML and
friends, Haskell and friends, Prolog, Mozart, Python, Rebol, and many
Smalltalks). The problem lies in the "vendors" and a match to my
world. I create "business" apps in the MS Windows world -- heavy
relational database, sophisticated GUI (both thick client and
browser), Web Services (SOAP/XML), interop with COM (Message Queueing,
E-Mail, XML, ...).

Franz has a pretty complete solution, probably production capable, but
it is outrageously expensive to tool up and then deploy.

Xanalys has a less complete solution. CLIM is pretty primitive by
today's UI standards. There is fragmentary support for Web Services
and interop with COM.

Others (CLISP, Coreman, ...) are even less complete - especially for
UI, Database, Web Services and other interop.

PLT Scheme is about the most complete of the Schemes, but UI is still
very difficult, and support is "academic, best effort as long as no
exams going on ..." or (quite good actually) mailing list.

Other Schemes (ChezScheme, Bigloo, MIT, SISC, Kawa, ...) have
insufficient support for Windows GUI, Databases, Web Services, other
interop.
