# Brandon Corfman

## When did you first try Lisp (meaning here and throughout the survey "any member of the Lisp family") seriously, and which Lisp family member was it?

Fall 2002. I started using trial versions of LispWorks and ACL, but I
hated various clunky aspects of the IDEs. As a result, I've switched
to Emacs & CLISP.

## What led you to try Lisp?

All of the Lisp articles on Paul Graham's website, but especially
"Beating the Averages", where he makes the comment that he didn't
expect anyone over the age of 25 would try Lisp. That just made me mad
(... I'm 30 years old ...) so I guess it irritated me into trying the
language. I had owned Paul's book "ANSI Common Lisp" for 4 years, but
I had found it too terse for my liking. I ended up latching on to
Winston and Horn's book and also Peter Norvig's "Principles of
Artificial Intelligence Programming" which did a much better job of
explaining Lisp to me.

Also, there was a particular programming challenge that got me into
Lisp as well. More on that below.

## If you were trying Lisp out of unhappiness with another language, what was that other language and what did you not like about it, or what were you hoping to find different in Lisp?

I program almost exclusively in C++ at work, and so most of my
expertise centered on Windows programming, templates, STL, etc. What I
noticed is that the trend in the C++ world was toward increasing use
of templates (epitomized by the book "Modern C++ Design"). While this
was hailed as a groundbreaking book, I saw it more as a disaster. I
found myself wanting to create simpler, elegant solutions to problems.

About the same time, I stumbled across Peter Norvig's Lisp solution
(on his website) to a programming challenge by Erann Gat. I was
convinced I could at least come close to the same productivity as
Peter using C++. I was seriously mistaken. You can [see the results
for yourself
here.](http://userpages.umbc.edu/~bcorfm1/C++-vs-Lisp.html)

## How far have you gotten in your study of Lisp? (I know, that is hard to measure)

I've made it halfway through Paul Graham's book, 3/4 of the way
through Winston and Horn, and skipped around in PAIP looking at what
interests me. I'm quite sure I have a long way to go.

I guess what I found interesting is that the coverage on certain
aspects of Lisp seems to be haphazard. For instance, exception
handling. I find this to be essential for correctly handling user
input in Lisp, but I had to go online and look at Steele to figure
this out.

## What do you think of Lisp so far?

I think it's far beyond most any other language as far as features,
but I still have issues with its readability and the ability to easily
debug it. I think it also needs a good standard library.

Lisp's huge positives are the ability to compile it for speed, its
consistency and regularity, its optional static typing, its support
for functional programming, and the fact that the designers seemed to
think of every possible way in which you'd want to use a keyword.

For me, I use Python to fill the bill on the things where Lisp is
lacking, but Lisp still has the definite edge on the power curve. I
think the clue for me is that I still find myself saying, "Why didn't
they do this like Lisp?"
