# Brian T Rice

## When did you first try Lisp seriously, and which Lisp family member was it?

It was the late 1980's when I was pretty young; my father ran a sales
company for PCB CAD systems in the Houston area to various NASA
contractors, so I was exposed to a lot of industrial software and
engineers of various kinds. I started learning how to use these
packages, having spent some time already writing graphics and game
programs in BASIC, Pascal, and eventually C. CadKey was extensible in
Forth and AutoCAD had its own version of Lisp; I quickly decided that
Forth was great for CAM snippets and that Lisp was great for extending
large systems. Later on, I turned this into a little after-school
consulting business, and really enjoyed it.

At the time I had only heard of Common Lisp and played with Scheme. I
was also fascinated by high-end workstations, and had a vague
fascination with these machines made from MIT that ran Lisp as systems
software, but I never actually saw one of them.

## What led you to try Lisp?

Because of the beauty and elegance of it, really. I remember that C++
was quickly becoming "the" language to write PC software in, and how
horrific it was to actually develop in. I've always wanted to write
really well-crafted software, and Lisp seemed to be one of the best
languages for it. I also didn't want to be affected by programming in
the same way that low-level hackers tend to be: mired in details,
rarely able to abstract from their many experiences, and fussing over
little requirements that some systems designer or vendor imposed on
them without even being able to think critically about it.

I had also read about all the work that researchers had done over the
previous two decades or so, at MIT and Stanford and Xerox PARC, and it
just made sense to continue systems work the way they did. When I was
15, I had been studying category theory and logic under one of my
teachers, and had a vision of information systems based on Lisp and
mathematics that seemed incredibly compelling, but I knew I wasn't
competent enough at the time to carry it out. When I entered college,
I started diving into research in my spare time, learning everything I
could. I stumbled onto the [TUNES project](http://www.tunes.org/)
nearly immediately and scoured the site, mining it for every possible
idea that could be integrated, and using the links for more
research. I wound up creating as a demonstration a PC floppy-bootable
Lisp object system with a graphical windowing setup during a
"programming binge". I later realized how naive a lot of the decisions
I made were, and waited for a few years to learn more abour design
before I tried that kind of thing again.

A side note: many years later, I actually joined TUNES; I'm now the de
facto coordinator for it.

I also read a few Lisp books in college (mid-1990's), like **The Art
of the Meta-Object Protocol**, and Winston & Horn's Lisp book. I
remember that EuLisp was around then and it appealed to me more than
CL (which wasn't as clean in features) and Scheme (which wasn't as
serious).

## Where did your road originate?

I mentioned C++ above, and that's really what did it for me. Since
seeing it become an applications programming language, I've wanted
something truly high-level to take its place.

Actually, I didn't really use Common Lisp until 2000 or so, when I was
in a position that I could work independently and choose my own tools
for jobs. Later, I had a commercial application requested from a
network security expert who wanted some really sophisticated online
pattern-matching and data mining; I managed to pitch the idea of Lisp
(to replace some complex in-house Perl framework) and gradually built
out a replacement that performed better and was more capable.

## How far have you gotten in your study of Lisp?

I sometimes forget the signature of functions in the ANSI CL
specification, but then I'm generally more interested in language
features and such. I've messed around with a lot of different
dialects, like [FramerD](http://framerd.org/)'s FDScript Scheme frame
language, [Goo](http://www.googoogaga.org/), or other things like Qi
or Maude or CafeOBJ.

I've also owned a Symbolics MacIvory II since 2000, and hack on it
from time to time. It generally acts as a silent muse in a way,
something like having an Alto around in the early Apple days. This
kind of thing still offers something that has value, I believe,
although mainly it's the software, not the hardware that makes
economic sense. There's a lot of design work that could go into a new
variation on the old Genera systems software and the interface that
would really make waves these days with users, and I want to be part
of that.

## What do you think of Lisp so far?

On the technical side, because I experiment with so many languages, I
could list lots of holdovers that don't belong any more, but that'd
simply echo someone else. What's probably more essential is to
revitalize the community and to think in different terms when
marketting or representing Lisp in industry; a lot of the old hands
seem to have diverged from the mainstream, and can't seem to explain
the relevance anymore, and this is dissappointing. I can also
sympathize with the newcomers' frustration these days with the lack of
"outside world" context in presentations of Lisp, although the
situation is improving.
