# Chris Perkins

## When did you first try Lisp (meaning here and throughout the survey "any member of the Lisp family") seriously, and which Lisp family member was it?

I started using Common Lisp after [Paul
Grahams](http://www.paulgraham.com/) article ["Beating the
Averages"](http://www.paulgraham.com/avg.html) appeared on
[slashdot](http://slashdot.org/article.pl?sid=01/05/01/1539239&mode=thread&tid=156)
in 2001.

## What led you to try Lisp?

Sometime over the years I picked up the prejudice that Lisp was a
special purpose language for academics and AI, and years ago a quick
peek at CTLT1 while standing in line at a bookstore cemented that
view; Lisp code didn't look like any programming language I knew thus
it must not be any programming language I would want.

But for two or three years leading up to reading that Paul Graham
article I had been developing a document containing hundreds of ideas
I'd had for an ideal language and/or an ideal programming environment.
Most of these came out of frustration from using C/C++ and Java.

Since 1996 a buddy and I had been building our own little software
business. Being small is often a great advantage, but sometimes there
were projects we just couldn't undertake - we were just two guys.  So
I was on the lookout for leverage.  We started using Java for this
very reason; two guys can get a lot more done in Java than two guys in
C++, especially if you need to deploy on multiple platforms, etc.

Needless to say, Paul Graham's article resonated with me. After
reading it I had to find out if what he was saying was true.

And, through a long still-underway learning process I would have to
say that yes, it is absolutely true.  Lisp is the best programming
language ever devised.  Nearly every language wish that was in my
wishlist is in Lisp (or made irrelevant by Lisp) and each has been
better designed and more thoughtfully integrated than I could have
ever done myself.  And since the language itself is also a compiler
and debugger many of the features of my ideal programming IDE are now
pointless.

## How far have you gotten in your study of Lisp? (I know, that is hard to measure)

I have written a lot of little utilities in it and use it for all
sorts of things now.  Increasingly I find that I think in Lisp and
that I approach problems "in the Lisp way" instead of my old
C/C++/Java way.  But, at the time of this writing, I've only been
using it for 2 years and I haven't written any professional
deliverable product in it yet.  (But I did automate a good portion of
our sales processing with a tool built in Lisp).


## What do you think of Lisp so far?

- Lisp Rocks
- Making an analogy in the context of George Orwell's **1984**: As
  English is to NewSpeak, so is Lisp to C.
- I wish the vendors would standardize FFI, interfaces to TCP, HTTP,
  etc.,
- I find Lisp to be very expressive and with it a programmer can apply
  a lot of leverage.
