# Conrad Barski

## When did you first try Lisp seriously, and which Lisp family member was it?

Earlier this year.

## What led you to try Lisp?

Well, like most people into lisp I've spent many years in the
traditional languages like C++, Pascal, Java, lots of assembly too. I
had a particular fascination with the C++ template system and its
promise of more programmer produtivity through "generic
programming". Over and over again I heard references to "functional
programming" as being the foundation for the STL template libraries-
Also, Bjarne said in several interviews that he thinks most of the
"interesting new ideas" in programming were coming from the functional
programming community. So I thought it would be wise to learn a
functional language to get a feel for what it had to offer.

Searching the web, I got the feeling that Haskell was getting the most
raves as a combination of power and elegant design, so I chose Haskell
and indeed became comfortable with FP. I worked my way through Hudak's
"The School of Expressions" and found it quite good except a couple of
chapters in the middle which were just completely incomprehensible
(basically simulating types using function objects and operator
overloading) that involved the difficult task of making a pure
functional language "interactive". I could not understand why this
code was designed the way it was, and unfortunately didn't get the
feeling like the authors really had a good handle on their
architectural design strategies either. So I went back to C++ for a
while, assuming FP was not a practical goal.

Then I read some articles by PG that described Lisp and they seemed to
give solutions to all the struggles I had with making Haskell work for
me- PG basically showed how you could take FP scientific mumbo-jumbo
and turn it into clear, practical code with the help of macros.

## How far have you gotten in your study of Lisp?

I would say I know about 60% of the commands, and about 95% of those
that are relevant for a FP approach and not low-level. I know most of
the material in "On Lisp" and PG's "ANSI Common Lisp" by heart.## What
do you think of Lisp so far?

Whenever one wants to learn things in any domain, it is usually wise
to do two things:

1. Familiarize oneself with the basic high-level concepts in that
   domain
2. Checking what concepts are the most popular in that domain

Using the combination of these two approaches, you can usually get a
good handle on "whats important" whether it is in cooking, rock music,
mountain climbing.

However, if the domain is "Programming", this approach is utterly
useless, because I think Lisp is so amazingly awesome and there is NO
WAY you can learn about Lisp using this standard approach- Because
ALMOST NOBODY uses Lisp, and understanding why it is such a perfect
family of languages requires intense study and is very, very difficult
to articulate even to other programmers who have decades of experience
under their belt.

I think the lack of popularity of Lisp among programmers is baffling
and incredibly unfortunate.
