# Constantine Vetoshev

## When did you first try Lisp seriously, and which Lisp family member was it?

1999, in a class called Computer Science 18, Structure and
Interpretation of Computer Programs, at Dartmouth College, taught by
Bruce Donald. Bruce taught the class in the prefix Dylan dialect Apple
abandoned a few years previously. Everyone used a hideous interpreter,
called Noodlle, written in Java, and running as an applet (Netscape
only). This pretty much meant writing code in Emacs and pasting it
into a web browser window for evaluation. It was slow and awful, but
learning about objects was part of the curriculum, and prefix Dylan
had a decent subset of CLOS available. I later TAed that class for a
different professor, and entertained long discussions about using
Common Lisp instead, but it was deemed that having two namespaces
would confuse students too much. The class is now taught in Scheme
with some object extensions.

## Where did your road originate?

At the time, I thought C was the most elegant language and Java the
most practical one. That point of view lasted for maybe two weeks
after initial exposure to Lisp.

## How far have you gotten in your study of Lisp?

I think I know Common Lisp fairly well. I do not, at the moment, write
Lisp code for a living, but I do like to play with it from time to
time.

## What do you think of Lisp so far?

I like it. It has become my reference standard to how a language
should work and how productive I can be in it. Sometime after my CS18
experience, I took a software engineering class, taught in C++. Just
for fun, I decided to prototype one of the homeworks in CL before
writing in something I could submit. Lisp coding and debugging: maybe
an hour, give or take a few minutes. C++ coding and debugging: five or
more hours. And that with almost no CL experience and around three
years of C++ experience.
