# David Rush

## When did you first try Lisp seriously, and which Lisp family member was it?

I am one of the one's who had several small-scale outings with Lisp,
ranging from doodling around with XLisp and trying to build Smalltalk
in it, to a 4th year university project to implement a CL system (in
which I eventually elected not to participate). The 'no-turning
back'point came as a combination of my decision to get really serious
about learning to use Emacs (actually XEmacs) and my adoption of SCWM
as the Emacs equivalent for window managers. I was extremely pleased
at how economical Lisp/Scheme code was.

It wasn't until I started to develop
[S2](http://mangler.sourceforge.net/) that I really realized the power
of programming in the Lisp family of languages. I made many of the
usual mistakes, especially getting a little bit too excited over the
possibilities of advanced macrology, but there was no denying that I
was finding Scheme to be one of the most productive programming
platforms I had ever used.

## What led you to try Lisp?

I needed to hack a family finacial system that would run on Unix. I
was able to get it up and running using Emacs Lisp in an apallingly
short time. I shifted to Scheme because my attempts at programming
SCWM just felt overall cleaner (modulo Guile's at-that-time apalling
module constructs). Once I realized how similiar Scheme's semantics
were to my other favorite
nobody-will-pay-me-to-program-in-this-language SML,I was hooked.

## Where did your road originate?

OOP. Most definitely. I had fooled with Lisp in the AI context for
years, but it was when I found my way back to Lisp through examing the
foundations of OOP (and by extension all programming) that I decided
that Scheme was a lovely sweet-spot in language design.

## How far have you gotten in your study of Lisp?

I'm involved in standardization efforts for Scheme, but only as a bit
player. I love programming in Scheme.

## What do you think of Lisp so far?

It's the best programming language since Smalltalk, and is even better
in some important ways.
