# Doug Tolton

##  When did you first try Lisp (meaning here and throughout the survey "any member of the Lisp family") seriously, and which Lisp family member was it

I really started looking at lisp seriously around november or december
of 2002.  I dabbled a little with elisp, but decided that I would
rather learn a full fledged implementation of Lisp, so I have been
learning ANSI Common Lisp.

## What led you to try Lisp

Paul Graham's plan for spam was posted to Slashdot.  I was amazed by
the simplicity and elegance of his ideas, so I started looking around
his site.  I read all (or almost all) of the articles he has posted.
I was completely fascinated by the prospects of Lisp.  So I purchased
ANSI Common Lisp by Graham and Lisp by Winston and Horn.

## If you were trying Lisp out of unhappiness with another language, what was that other language and what did you not like about it, or what were you hoping to find different in Lisp

I learned to program in Basic, and then moved to Visual Basic for
several years.  I learned C, C++ and Java, but the companies I worked
for were mainly microsoft shops, so I was stuck in VB hell.  I moved
to asp for a few years, but that was an even more impaired version of
VB.  When microsoft released the dotnet platform I held some hope that
it would redress many of the problems with Visual Basic.  When I made
the switch, I switched to the cleaner C#, because I was tired of how
verbose VB was.

However C# has led to a deep dissatisfaction that had been brewing in
me for years, both with microsoft and their design choices.

When I began reading Paul Grahams web site, it was as if I found a ray
of hope.  Suddenly I was being presented with a programming language
that wasn't written for an idiot, rather it was explicitly designed to
allow you to take complete advantage of it.  I have been addicted to
learning about Lisp since them.

## How far have you gotten in your study of Lisp? (I know, that is hard to measure

I'm sure I'm still a noob at Lisp.  There are so many basic things
that I still don't know how to do.  However I feel a keen interest to
really understand Lisp and how it works at a deep level.  Lisp truly
has re-awakened the excitement I had about computers when I first
entered this field.

## What do you think of Lisp so far?

I **Love** Lisp.  I'm sure it's trite, but it really is quickly
becoming my favorite language.  I have to use my second favorite
language at work (python) because all those parentheses cause my peers
to start quivering and twitching. :)

Long Live Lisp
