# Duncan Rose

## When did you first try Lisp seriously, and which Lisp family member was it?

Hrm. I guess it all started a couple of months ago, and I dived into
Common Lisp performing some convoluted triple-twist move on the
way... see below.

I'm currently using CMUCL mainly, with a little LispWorks too.

## What led you to try Lisp?

I've been aware of Lisp for quite some time; but I've never had the
time to really explore it. Now that my family is older, I am able to
devote more time to exploring all those things I've wanted to explore
for a while, one of which being Lisp.

## Where did your road originate?

Most of my development is done professionally and we use Java at
work. Not particularly liking most Java IDEs I started using Emacs +
JDE to develop. This led me to attempt to write some elisp code (I
forget now what I was even trying to do... I didn't ever finish it
that's for sure!), and whilst hunting around for resources I came
across a post to c.l.l recommending somebody to learn Common Lisp
rather than elisp which caused me to persue CL rather then finish up
the Emacs code I initially started.

This in turn led to me trying CMUCL, SBCL, LispWorks and Allegro
looking for an environment in which I was comfortable (to be honest I
still haven't found one in which I'm totally comfortable, and the
search (inevitably?) led me towards Lisp machines / LispOS, and now
onwards to McCLIM).

## How far have you gotten in your study of Lisp?

Well... I've digested ANSI Common Lisp by Paul Graham, but not much
has stuck in the old grey matter yet. I could do with finding a
hard-backed version of this book since the pages have started falling
out of the paper back I flick backwards and forwards through it so
much!

I'd like to think I'm aware of most of the CL concepts, but everything
I do takes longer than I'd like since I have to look pretty much
everything up and the HyperSpec makes it very easy to get distracted
into looking at other areas so I'm spending quite a lot of time on
diversions at the moment ;-)

## What do you think of Lisp so far?

It's been a while since something grabbed my interest quite so much. I
guess the last time would have been in the early '90s when I first
found Linux (Slackware 3.0 IIRC). Certainly I'm learning more than I
expected to, and I'm able to do more than I thought I would in the
time I've been able to devote to Lisp so far. My problem at the moment
is I want to do *everything* and there aren't enough hours in the
day!
