# Gary Klimowicz

## When did you first try Lisp seriously, and which Lisp family member was it?

I first started programming in Interlisp when working on an AI project
in the late 70s. After the project ended, I worked for many years on
UNIX systems, in C and C++ and occasionally Smalltalk. When one of the
recent Java-based startups I worked at started crumbling, Jothy
Rosenberg asked a couple of us, "If you could only program in one
language for the rest of your life, what would it be?" My immediate
answer was Lisp, even though I hadn't looked at it in over a dozen
years. That, and Kent Pitman's Slashdot interview, started me
researching what had happened to Lisp in the ANSI Common Lisp era. I
ready CLtL2 and have been hooked since.

## What led you to try Lisp?

I just remembered how powerful it was in graduate school, and how much
fun it was to program in because of the power of the language and the
libraries.

## Where did your road originate?

During the bulk of the 80's and 90's I was working in UNIX with C and
C++, writing embedded systems software, UI applications, device
drivers, performance analysis tools and so on.

I wrote a kind of "phone home" application for customer service in
Smalltalk, which got me back in touch with the more dynamic language
world. It was sweet.

After a couple of startup companies that did their development in C,
C++, Visual Basic, Java and Python, I decided to get off the
merry-go-round and go back to the language I had always loved the
most, Lisp.

## How far have you gotten in your study of Lisp?

Consider myself a returning newbie; I have lots of programming
experience, but don't do much programming in my day job. All
recreational programming now is done in Common Lisp, using Allegro and
emacs. I'm still struggling to be as fluid in Lisp as I used to be in
C and C++. But I don't care. I ain't going back.

I am to the point where I can usually follow [Erik
Naggum](https://web.archive.org/web/20100503202852/http://wiki.alu.org/Erik%20Naggum)'s,
[Kent
Pitman](https://web.archive.org/web/20100503202852/http://wiki.alu.org/Kent%20Pitman)'s,
[Daniel
Barlow](https://web.archive.org/web/20100503202852/http://wiki.alu.org/Daniel%20Barlow)'s,
[Christophe](https://web.archive.org/web/20100503202852/http://wiki.alu.org/Christophe)
Rhodes's and [Edi
Weitz](https://web.archive.org/web/20100503202852/http://wiki.alu.org/Edi%20Weitz)'s
comments on c.l.l.

## What do you think of Lisp so far?

The Most Powerful Programming Language Known to Man (TM). I'm amazed
at how many of the features of CL are just now appearing in more
"modern" languages.

I'm something of the local Lisp fanatic where I work, which is an MS
shop developing most of its code in Visual C++, Visual Basic, and
C#. I am the target of many well-meaning jokes.
