# Geoffrey S. Knauth

## When did you first try Lisp seriously, and which Lisp family member was it?

I've been using Emacs Lisp since the mid-1980s.  I used other Lisps
occasionally over the years.

## What led you to try Lisp?

When, in 1999-2002, I saw the kind of sophisticated applications at
[BBN](http://www.bbn.com/) that Ken Anderson, Renu Bostwick and Rusty
Bobrow built with
[JScheme](http://jscheme.sourceforge.net/jscheme/mainwebpage.html), I
saw that I would want to write much less C and much more Lisp in my
future.  I should have taken the bait back in 1980 when Harry Lewis at
Harvard showed us how to build a Lisp interpreter in AM110, but I'm
afraid I was just a foolish kid at that age.

## Where did your road originate?

I've been a C programmer since 1977, and I've built a lot of C
programs.  I've built C++ and Java programs too.  A mix of Java and
functional languages is where I see my future, with C used only
sparingly.  I've used almost every language imaginable since 1975.

## How far have you gotten in your study of Lisp?

I get the major points.  At this point is just a matter of continuing
practice and refinement, like taking piano lessons.  You don't become
a master overnight.

## What do you think of Lisp so far?

I think it's wonderful.  The Lisp folks I've met are brilliant.  The
only difficulty I've had is in convincing managers that Lisp should
get more emphasis than Java in development.  All my Lisp projects have
to be on the side.  I get the feeling that when managers look at Java,
they think "commodity programmers," and when they look at Lisp
programmers, they think "expensive talent."  So to win in the battle
for Lisp, we have to show convincingly the overwhelming power of Lisp.
We have to show how much smaller Lisp programs can be, how much better
they can perform, and the magical things they do that procedural
programming languages do less well.
