# Jochen Schmidt

## When did you first try Lisp seriously, and which Lisp family member was it?

I remember encountering Lisp by accident in 1999. It was first Scheme,
but I went for Common Lisp some weeks later.

## What led you to try Lisp?

At this time, nobody that I knew used or even had an idea about Lisp
at my university. Most of my projects were done in C++ or just C. I've
been very interested in cryptography and network protocols. In one toy
C++ project I wanted to add a scripting interface and looked for some
options. I knew my editor (Emacs) was scriptable in "Lisp", found
Guile, the embeddable Scheme and integrated it into my
program. Several weeks later I found programming in Lisp much more
sane than anything I was used to before. I recoded my project in one
afternoon in CLISP and was shocked: The code was significantly shorter
and more extensible; the interactive development was particularily
suited to network server programming and the numerical tower of Common
Lisp made experimenting with cryptography a pleasure. After struggling
for years with the idiosyncracies of C++, I immediately felt at home
with this language.

## What other languages have you been using most?

Before Lisp: C,C++, Python, Oracle PLSQL

## How far have you gotten in your study of Lisp?

I used Lisp as my main prototyping and implementation language for the
last 10 years. Lisp still manages to surprise me in a positive way.

## What do you think of Lisp so far?

Common Lisp is by far my favorite language. It not only made my coding
much more efficient, it also did spark a general interest in studying
programming languages and their concepts. One reason for this is
certainly, that Lisp is unique in its ability to adopt (if not to say
assimilate ;-) ) new language concepts. Common Lisp is Borg,
resistence is futile, your concepts will be assimilated.
