# Joel Ray Holveck

## When did you first try Lisp seriously, and which Lisp family member was it?

In 1992, I was in high school, and decided to try Lisp.  I found a
free Common Lisp implementation for DOS (the only OS I knew at the
time), and studied it enough to get some basic ideas about what Lisp
was and what it could do.

For what I was doing in those days, Lisp was not the answer (except
for building up a copious .emacs file two years later when I found
Emacs).  But I never forgot what I had learned of Lisp, and when
future projects came up when it was the right language, I knew what to
pull from my arsenal.

It wasn't until 1996 that I had established Lisp as my first-choice
language for almost all my projects... but since it had been a part of
my toolbox since '92, that's what I put down.

## What led you to try Lisp?

I had studied the ways of the MIT hackers, and tried to model my
programming ways after it.  (Much of my source material was Steven
Levy's Hackers and the Jargon File.)  I learned how fond these hackers
were of Lisp, and decided that it was worth looking into.

## Where did your road originate?

Prior to 1992, C was my main language.  While Lisp was part of my
toolbox for a long time, Perl was a bigger part from 1994-1996.  I
waffled a lot between C, Lisp, and Perl, giving them roughly equal
share until 2001.  Today, Lisp is far and away my language of choice
for most projects, although C and Perl still play their parts due to
technical needs or political concerns.

## How far have you gotten in your study of Lisp?

I'm a professional programmer, and my primary language for the last
two years has been Lisp.  I use the MOP now and again as it suits my
needs, but so far only the introspective aspects.  One of my projects
is CLIM-based.  Other projects include

## What do you think of Lisp so far?

I think it's great.  It gives me the freedom to concentrate on the
problem, rather than the language representation.  The language is
rich and complete.  On the rare cases that there's something extra I
need in the language, I can add it.
