# Peter Seibel

## When did you first try Lisp (meaning here and throughout the survey "any member of the Lisp family") seriously, and which Lisp family member was it?

Junior year in college (1992) I decided to write an interative
prisoner's dilemma simulation for a course I was taking on the
biological roots of human nature. I learned enough Lisp (using
XLISP-STAT since it was free-as-in-beer on the Mac) over Thanksgiving
break to hurt myself. Because I didn't understand what the heck I was
doing, my program consed like crazy and used append
everywhere. Consequently I ended up need to hijack my girlfriend's
SE/30 to write the paper while my SE/30 cranked away for a couple days
generating results. Later I showed the program to my dad who was
aghast and told me he could probably have made it run at least 10
times faster. Which was probably a gross underestimate. I learned an
important lesson there about needing to understand what is going on
under the covers even when using a high-level language.

## What led you to try Lisp?

My Dad was a Lisp hacker in the 80's first at Merck (who sent him to
training offered by Symbolics) and later at Bolt Beranek & Newman so
he tried to get me to learn it at some point while I was in
high-school. I was even--following my parents' lead--a childhood
shareholder in Symbolics.

## If you were trying Lisp out of unhappiness with another language, what was that other language and what did you not like about it, or what were you hoping to find different in Lisp?

Well, I've been trying to get *back* to Lisp ever since I left college
and stumbled into programming as a career. My Dad had convinced my
that Lisp was the bee's knees so when I ended up at Mother Jones
magazine and fell into working on their web site after complaining
about some feature or another, I asked my boss if I could do it in
Lisp. He didn't know anything about Lisp so he wasn't crazy about the
idea but since I was a basically unpaid intern, he didn't have the
heart to flat out say no. Unfortunately I didn't really know Lisp that
well, let alone how one went about using it to replace NCSA's web
server and CGI scripts, so I didn't get very far with that and instead
became a pretty expert Perl programmer. From there I bounced to an
early web shop (Organic Online) and onto WebLogic where I became a
Java programmer. Another startup's worth of Java later I had had
enough and quit my job with no more of a plan than to finally learn
Common Lisp for real. (2003)

## How far have you gotten in your study of Lisp? (I know, that is hard to measure)

I've been working on a book about Common Lisp (for Apress) for a few
months so I'm developing a pretty good theoretical understanding of
most of the language's features. But I realize that I haven't written
nearly enough serious software in Common Lisp to speak it
natively. Which I'm working to rectify as fast as possible while
working on the book.

## What do you think of Lisp so far?

I'm continually amazed by how many things the language's designers got
right. Macros, of course, are the gigantic, huge, unbeatable
advantage. But all the other things that they got right add up
too. For example, built in bignums, characters not being some demented
kind of integer, everything being an object. The condition system is
also particularly cool.
