# Sean Champ

## When did you first try Lisp seriously, and which Lisp family member was it?

It was sometime in 1999, after I'd got a K6-II to replace my old Tandy
1000 RL computer.

At some point, I found out about [XEmacs](http://xemacs.org/); I
started to learn Emacs Lisp, as I customized my XEmacs init file.

Later, I found out about cl.el, then about Common Lisp.

Once I had [Debian Linux](http://www.debian.org/) installed, I put
[CMUCL](https://web.archive.org/web/20100503195507/http://wiki.alu.org/CMUCL)
onto my box, and have been using it off-and-on since then.

## What led you to try Lisp?

I wanted a good text-editor; [XEmacs](http://xemacs.org/) fit the
bill. The fact that I was able to customize its behaviors, using a
language that, once learned, **made sense** to me, was the proverbial
icing on the desktop.

## Where did your road originate?

The first programming language that I'd used was BASIC, on a Tandy
Color Computer 3.

Incidentally, I once tried making a German-language tutor in BASIC
(which was supposed to test the user, me, about vocabulary,
noun/gender pairing, and verb conjugation, and would play "Ach, du
Lieber Augustin" during the "splash-screen" sequence), but I had no
idea, then, of how to use a file for data storage, or that such a
thing was even available as a technique. It was an isolated effort,
during my Senior year in high school. I abandoned it, when realizing
how much of a hassle it was going to be, to "hard-code" the words
database as a piece of static BASIC script.

## How far have you gotten in your study of Lisp?

far enough to be dedicated to using it in the long run, and to be bent
on, eventually, making (and selling, perhaps with a "free for
non-commercial use" license, as well) a Lisp OS; laugh as some may, at
the sound of that ...

## What do you think of Lisp so far?

It makes sense, generally.

As for Common Lisp, in particular:

I wish that `REMF` was named `DELF`, to indicate that it destructively
modifies the list.

I wonder if CLOS seems so "strange" within the CL proper, given the
influence that SmallTalk may've had on it [CLHS section 1.1.2,
paragrahps 11 and
12](http://www.lispworks.com/reference/HyperSpec/Body/01_ab.htm)

I get **really** tired of people complaining about
((((parenthesis)))), when I mention it, in some places.

I like Common Lisp, and I plan on using it more, as time,
circumstances, and knowledge allow.

I continue to use Emacs Lisp, also, for getting my
[XEmacs](http://xemacs.org/) set-up to my liking.
