# Sebastian Stern

## When did you first try Lisp seriously, and which Lisp family member was it?

The first time I encountered Lisp, I immediately realized this was
it. In 2000, I downloaded Lisp for the first time. It was Harlequin
LispWorks. After that I downloaded some more implementations, such as
Franz, and Corman. I also had SuSE Linux installed, which had a copy
of CLISP.

## What led you to try Lisp?

As synchronicity would have it, I read Douglas R. Hofstadters three
wonderful articles about Lisp in Scientific American in the compendium
book "Metamagical Themas", at fourteen years old. I became completely
infatuated by Lisp. I realized that the languages I had learned until
now, were ad-hoc and that Lisp is the natural way to construct a
language.

## Where did your road originate?

I had been programming from a very early age. I also was (and am) very
interested in mathematics and the theory behind programming. Before I
learned about Lisp, I had learned about Basic, HTML, C, C++, Java. I
find it a pity that I am forced to use some these languages at [my
university](http://www.cs.vu.nl/) instead of Lisp. I think it would
make a big difference to introduce Lisp at universities to young
programmers.

## How far have you gotten in your study of Lisp?

I've studied CLtL2 and SICP, downloaded a few Lisp implementations and
fiddled a little with them. I've also read various texts and articles
on the internet. I read comp.lang.lisp. However, I have found it
difficult to become proficient in Lisp. As much as I like Lisp, it is
a complex tool, and it is difficult to master.

## What do you think of Lisp so far?

I 100% adore it. To me, the concepts that Lisp stands for are an
embodiment of all that is beautiful in the Universe. However, I am
only about 80% happy with Lisp as it is currently defined (CL and
Scheme). I think there should be a new definition of Lisp (perhaps
like TUNES or Genera or Graham's Arc) which combines Common Lisp's
features with Scheme's elegance. As far as Lisp is concerned, I would
love to create such a system.
