# Tayssir John Gabbour

## When did you first try Lisp (meaning here and throughout the survey "any member of the Lisp family") seriously, and which Lisp family member was it?

I tried Scheme a few months ago, when I heard the [SICP
lectures](http://www.swiss.ai.mit.edu/classes/6.001/abelson-sussman-lectures/)
were out on video (as divx and mpeg files).

## What led you to try Lisp?

There's a background buzz about lisp when you go deeper into CS.  Of
course, there's the Kent Pitman interview at Slashdot, and Paul
Graham's joyful rantings...  Plus a video of Gregor Kiczales talking
about metaobjects.

Concretely speaking, SICP was free (I soon bought the book + answer
guide) and Dr. Scheme was an incredibly usable beginner's environment.
The nice thing about lisp is that there's the other dialect when you
want to step up in power, CL.  Definitely like going from a
crotchrocket motorcycle to a Lamborghini with a lot of strange tools
and which can, in certain circumstances, fly.  So I bought PAIP and a
few other CL books.

## If you were trying Lisp out of unhappiness with another language, what was that other language and what did you not like about it, or what were you hoping to find different in Lisp?

I feel it would be immature of me to be unhappy with other languages,
since that means I haven't gotten good yet at building powerful tools
to generate code in them.

## How far have you gotten in your study of Lisp? (I know, that is hard to measure)

I'm ok.  I'm limited by my lack of CS knowledge, so I'm studying "how
languages work" right now, with a couple texts.  So there's little
point to continuing to learn lisp until there's a point to it.

## What do you think of Lisp so far?

See absurd flying Lamborghini reference above.

Seriously, I think CL is an incredibly expressive language, and the
reason I compared it to a flying car with all sorts of tools, is
because there are incredible things like the `disassemble` function.
Who would have thought to put this into a standard?  This function
most of all means something, though I don't know how to put it into
words.  The Quality with No Name, as Christopher Alexander would put
it?

At the same time, I don't want to sound like some zealot; it's also
just a programming language, though one done pretty well.  I'm glad
the AI years went through a lot of excesses, since I suspect CL would
have been a lot cleaner and yet lesser otherwise.

(By the way, I don't actually know what a Lamborghini is like.  Feel
free to edit this page and put in a better car with an exotic name.)
