# Thomas Munro

## When did you first try Lisp seriously, and which Lisp family member was it?

I first tried a Lisp seriously in 2005, and it was Scheme.  (I saw
some kind of Lisp at university a decade earlier, and I'd seen plenty
of Emacs Lisp, but I'd never pursued it).

## What led you to try Lisp?

John Koza's book Genetic Programming -- On the Programming of
Computers by Means of Natural Selection.  I wrote working toy genetic
programming implementations in Python and then C++, but in the process
of learning how to make my own expression evaluators for those
languages, I got sucked into the Scheme literature.  As you might have
guessed, before long I couldn't see the point of the C++ scaffolding
and switched to a real Lisp for that project, and then eventually all
other experimental hacking.

## What other languages have you been using most?

In my programming job I work mostly with typical commercial languages
like C, C++, Java, Python and sometimes Fortran (and I really enjoy
most of those languages when they're done well).  I my own time, I
usually hack in Common Lisp or C++ these days.  I think Scheme is the
nicest of the Lisps in many ways, but I found I was wasting too much
precious hacking time trying to find, port or write libraries -- and
sweet Common Lisp eases the pain.

## How far have you gotten in your study of Lisp?

I don't feel like a total beginner anymore, but there is obviously no
end to how much you can do and learn with it.  As for implementation,
I have written simple Scheme interpreters, which may pass for a kind
of minor rite of passage, but I would really like to understand
compilers better.

## What do you think of Lisp so far?

I love it -- it's changed how I think about computation and this has
certainly affected my work in other languages too (just like they
always said).  My plan to learn Haskell or ML next 'after' Lisp have
so far been delayed by several years.  The Emacs + SLIME + SBCL
combination is very pleasing and practical to work with.  Maybe it's
something like the old Lisp Machines of legend, or like the TI
Explorer system that Dr Koza did his GP work on?
