# tony yelacic

## When did you first try Lisp seriously, and which Lisp family member was it?

i have not yet tried Lisp seriously, or, at least not what i would
consider seriously.  i do have some projects in mind that i haven't
been able to find ways to do easily in other languages.  my hope and
expectation is that once i become more familiar with Lisp, i will be
able to bend it to my will.

the families that i have tried are, Emacs/XEmacs Lisp, Xanalys
Lispworks, and CLISP for Linux and W32.

## What led you to try Lisp?

i am educating myself on programming.  amongst my reading material, i
saw references to the language.  i made a mental note at the time to
look into the language once i had mastered a few other languages and
gained some deeper knowledge of other technologies.  i've been playing
with linux and bsd on some machines i picked up and decided to try
emacs instead of vi or vim.  i found the environment to be truly
fascinating and found out that the gnu emacs is done extensively in
Lisp.  it was then that i decided to start investigate the language in
earnest.

## Where did your road originate?

the above answers the question.  my road to programming began with
some problems i had on the job.  i started doing a little
investigation on how some technologies we use worked and discovered
that some of them had apis available.  it piqued my interest and a few
thousand dollars in reading material and many hours of research and
viola, Lisp has found it's way into my mind...  well, not completely
yet, but we are determined.

## How far have you gotten in your study of Lisp?

far enough to know that i was correct in my assumption that this
programming paradigm (sorry, i don't like to use buzz words much, but
this applies) will make it possible for me to 1) solve some problems
that i have not yet been able to solve in other languages and 2)
extend my understanding of the programming process in ways other
languages have not yet been able to do.

## What do you think of Lisp so far?

i dig it.
