# Vladimir Sedach

## When did you first try Lisp seriously, and which Lisp family member was it?

I first started programming seriously in Scheme (DrScheme) in spring
of 2002.

## What led you to try Lisp?

I spent most of my last year in high school messing around with 3d
graphics, which got me interested in doing programming more
seriously. By that point, I was somewhat proficient in C and shell
scripting. I didn't particularly like C, so I decided to look for a
language that suited me better. First, it was Perl (which I liked even
less), and then Python.

As luck would have it, one of the 3d programs I was using (Izware's
Mirai) was written in CL, which at the time seemed large and
complicated, but I was already sort-of exposed to Scheme (see below
for an explanation). I went looking, and found Kent Pitman's Slashdot
interview. This piqued my interest. From there, I heard about SICP. My
local library not having a copy, I printed out the first chapter. Then
the second. Then the third...

Finally, this whole computer science thing made sense! (Enough sense
that I decided to major in mathematics).

Fast forward to first week of university. The "intro to CL" course is
taught in Pascal. I learned (and subsequently forgot) enough Pascal in
3 days to pass the course "challenge" examination by writing a linked
list implementation and a bunch of list-recursion functions.

Gradually, I moved my Scheming to Emacs, then, after reading about
macros in Paul Graham's On Lisp, decided to move my Scheming to Common
Lisping (the biggest hurdle to this was packages, for some reason),
and here I am, a happy Lisper.

## Where did your road originate?

In the gilded tan-grey halls of Stuyvesant HS sometime in the spring
of 2000. Specifically, Mike Zamansky's really cool [Introduction to
Computer Science](http://cs.stuy.edu/mcs1/) course. Scheme was used
for a few weeks to present theoretical computer science. For some
reason the Scheme portion wasn't that impressive (mostly I just
remember one of the assignments was to write the basic arithmetic
operators +-/*gcd, using lists for numbers). Now the Starlogo, that
Starlogo and it's crazy turtles!

## How far have you gotten in your study of Lisp?

Since finally wrapping my head around call/cc and it's implications, I
can say that I know most of Scheme pretty well.

Common Lisp is a different story. I learn new things through and about
it all the time - all I know is there is a *lot* more to learn. I
can't even say I know as much as the average Common Lisper, mostly
because I don't think such a category exists yet (but there do seem to
be a lot of CL beginners appearing recently - surely a good sign!).

## What do you think of Lisp so far?

Everything I tried before Lisp seemed to hinder either my thinking
about or executing solutions to problems. As an example, I spend a
fraction of the time my classmates do on difficult CS assignments
because I first write out and debug my algorithms in a subset of CL,
and then transcribe them to Java.

I've tried several other languages since starting Common Lisp (mainly
K, Forth and Smalltalk) - CL either provides what other languages do,
but cleaner and faster, or (and this is significantly more important!)
it lets me provide those features for myself.
